Happy-Buddha
============

Rendering  object by applying cartoon shading on mesh happy buddha.

My course project was about rendering an object by applying cartoon shading on the particular mesh object. This technique can be applied to any object, but for the purpose of this project I decided to render a Stanford Happy Buddha. Toon shading technique was used for shading the object or otherwise called Cel Shading. It’s a type of non-photorealistic rendering which makes the image to be flat. It’s often used to mimic style of cartoon or comic books. Silhouette lines were rendered around the object using cell shading to make the rendering of the model look like an illustration.
	A ply file is read into the program and a 3D model of the object is rendered on the output window. The face normal, normal and vertices at each point are all calculated within the Vertex Normal method. Rendering of the mesh occurs in the display function. The display function renders the mesh and it also implements the cell shading method with silhouette line. A method called shader is implemented it sets up different shaders which will be used within the program; it defines the sources of the shader as it reads the different shader files. It compiles the shaders and attaches the shaders to its program. In order to draw the black outline or the silhouette lines two methods can be used one through polygon offsets and another method is by using stencil buffer. In order to draw the outline back faces are rendered with solid fill and their vertices are translated along their vertex normals. The blending function is enabled to blend the lines and after drawing the outline the back face culling is set back to normal to draw the shading. Then the z buffering is used to composite the image and the object are drawn with black outline and interior contouring lines. 
	In this particular project the object was rendered fist in a mesh format. Then using the stencil buffer silhouette lines were drawn around the object. In order to use the stencil buffer the stencil buffer window needs to be clean and the depth and color buffer should be disabled. Then the Stencil buffer is enabled, and using stencilfunc function its set to write 1 every time a pixel is written to the screen. Then the object is rendered in black with solid filling and this is repeated two times. The thickness and the color of the lines to be rendered around the objects are also set after the final iteration of the object being rendered. As a result a Happy Buddha with cell shading shader with contouring lines and silhouette lines to give an illustration of a cartoon is projected onto the window.
. Toon shading and interior contouring line technique can be implemented on any other object as well other than the Buddha. In order to test the particular scenario any play files can be fed within the program and the same effect shall be seen. 
	
